It Android, in order to preserve this data, we use room.
Now what is this thing called room?
So room is part of Jetpack Remember, which is a set of tools that allow us to build modern, efficient,
consistent applications.
According to the definition, the room persistence library provides an abstraction layer over skylight
to allow for more robust database access while harnessing the full power of super light.
Well, verifiable.
What this really means is that room takes away all of the difficulties Android developers had to go
through had to endure when creating databases in the past.
Android developers would have to use SQLite classes in order to create a database in Android, which
had a lot of different classes, a lot of moving parts, and there was no an abstraction layer.
Abstraction layer really just means something that hides all the complicated stuff, if you will, now
with room.
All of that is gone.
All of that hard work that develops had to do to just create a simple database.
It's gone before we go into looking at room and how to create a database so that we can persist or in
this case, safe notes data onto our device.
We need to talk about another concept which is part of building scalable application.
OK, so this concept is called dependency injection.
Now, you may have heard of this or may not have heard of this.
Either way, it's OK, so I'll try to briefly explain go through a few examples what this is and the
importance of dependency injection.
Well dependency happens when an object requires another object for it to function or to add more functionality
to it.
Quite a good example.
But simple is this so we have a class called car and we have another class called engine.
The idea here is that car depends on engine for it to function in this case here.
We say that there is a dependency between car and engine.
Now there are different ways to structure this concept in code, which I'm going to show you here.
One way is not that great.
The other way is actually the best way to move forward.
Now you may ask, why am I even touching dependency injection?
Well, dependency injection is a huge topic, and there are a lot of libraries which we'll talk about
later.
And in Android development, this is highly recommended and and its use throughout Android development
and other types of development as well, because it gives us a lot of advantages, as you will see in
a bit.
Understanding this concept is very important again.
This is a vast topic, so I'll just give you the basics so that we are on the same page and again,
start seeing the big picture.
OK, let's go back to code so I can show you dependency injection and its advantages.